1 1 51

1. The parton distribution tables used in CalcHEP
can contain description of alphaQCD(Q). The first
menu position gives to the user a possibility to
accept/refuse the alphaQCD stored in the tables.
 If this switch is ON, but  in the current moment
the parton distribution table is not specified or
doesn't contain alphaQCD, then you should see the
symbol "?" attached to  "ON". In this case the
alphaQCD defined by next menu items is used 
ignoring this menu item.

2-6. These menu items define built-in alphaQCD
function. Here 'nf' is maximal number of flavors. 
The actual number of flavors will decrease with 
decreasing the scale.
  
7.The 'Q= ..' menu item defines the dependence of 
scale Q from the phase-space point. In time of
numerical calculations this scale is passed to
running QCD coupling and parton distributions.Q is
specified by an algebraic formula which depends on 
primitive phase space functions. The last ones are 
  Sij = (p_i-p_j)^2    for  i,j <=nIn+nOut 
  Mij = sqrt(Sij)      for nIn< i,j<=nIn+nOut
                        or      i,j<=nIn
  Ti = (p_i^1)^2+(p_i^2)2 - transverse momentum
  Mi = particle mass
  Zi  = sqrt(Ti^2+Mi^2)   - transverse energy
For example, a popular choice of scale based on
Mandelstam variables 
  Q^2= 2*s*t*u/(s^2+t^2+u^2) can be realized by 

QCD scale: sqrt(2*S12*S13*S14/(S12^2+S13^2+S14^2)) 

One can use 'min' and 'max' functions with 
arbitrary number of arguments. For instance

   QCD scale: max(Z3,Z4,Z5,Z6)

Names of free and constrained variables can be 
used in 'QCD scale' formula can contains any free
or constrained variables involved in calculations.
The scale smaller then 1 GeV is replaced 
automatically on 1 GeV.

8. The "Alpha(Q) plot" menu function displays the
alpha(Q) plots for the region of Q defined by the
user.
